



gen                                                              G. Deen
Internet-Draft                                      Comcast-NBCUniversal
Intended status: Informational                          27 February 2026
Expires: 31 August 2026


     Update to Recognize the IETF IPMC as the IETF Trust Successor
                   draft-deen-ietf-ipmc-update-latest

Abstract

   This document updates IETF documents that reference the IETF Trust to
   include the Trust's successor, the IETF Intellectual Property
   Management Corporation.

   Discussion of this draft is on the ipr-wg@ietf.org mailing list.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://gitnnelg.github.io/draft-deen-ietf-ipmc-update/draft-deen-
   ietf-ipmc-update.html.  Status information for this document may be
   found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-deen-ietf-ipmc-
   update/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the genarea Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:ipr-wg@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/ipr-wg.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/ipr-wg/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/gitnnelg/draft-deen-ietf-ipmc-update.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 31 August 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Updates
     2.1.  References to the IETF Trust in IETF RFCs and BCPs
     2.2.  Websites and URLs
       2.2.1.  IETF IPR: ietf.org/ipr and ietf.org/process/ipr
       2.2.2.  IETF Trust: trustee.ietf.org
       2.2.3.  IETF IPMC: www.ietf-ipm.org
     2.3.  Updates to RFC5378
       2.3.1.  IETF IPMC Technical Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
               Documents (TLP)
     2.4.  Use of IETF Trust and IETF IPMC in other IETF IPR Framework
           Documents
     2.5.  RFC8721 Advice to the IPMC Directors on the IETF IPMC on
           Rights to be Granted in IETF Documents
     2.6.  Intellectual Property Rights Held by IETF Trust
     2.7.  RFC Streams
     2.8.  IETF Trustees and IPMC Directors
       2.8.1.  Corporate Governance Context
       2.8.2.  IPMC Director Selection Mechanism
       2.8.3.  Protection of Nominating Organization Rights
       2.8.4.  IPMC Director Recall
     2.9.  IETF IPMC recognition of IETF BCPs
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Appendix A.  Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The IETF Trust, a Virginia trust, was established in 2005 as the
   intellectual property rights (IPR) manager for the IETF.  The IETF
   Trust has held and managed IPR, including those granted by authors of
   IETF Contributions and IETF Documents following the terms of BCP78,
   currently specified in [RFC5378] and its predecessors.

   The IETF Intellectual Property Management Corporation (IPMC), a
   Delaware not-for-profit corporation was established in December 2022
   with the intention of being the successor to the IETF Trust,
   replacing it and assuming all of its roles and responsibilities.
   Since its establishment the IETF IPMC has been undertaking the
   necessary steps to establish itself as a 501c3 non-profit, to prepare
   for and execute the transfer of all assets held by the IETF Trust,
   and to update where necessary agreements and IETF documents to
   complete the task of assuming the role as the replacement of the IETF
   Trust.

   The IETF Trust has never held or been involved in patents and
   likewise, the IETF IPMC will continue not being involved with any
   patent related activity.

   This document updates RFC 5378, RFC8714, RFC8721 and other IETF
   documents to recognize that the IETF IPMC is now the proper custodian
   of all IETF-related intellectual property rights and successor in
   interest to the IETF Trust.

2.  Updates

2.1.  References to the IETF Trust in IETF RFCs and BCPs

   All references to “IETF Trust” in any IETF document, including RFCs,
   BCPs, Internet-Drafts, and other IETF publications, shall be read and
   interpreted as referring to the IETF Intellectual Property Management
   Corporation (IETF IPMC) as the successor entity.

   The IETF IPMC has assumed all rights, responsibilities, and
   obligations previously held by or attributed to the IETF Trust in
   such documents.

2.2.  Websites and URLs

2.2.1.  IETF IPR: ietf.org/ipr and ietf.org/process/ipr

   The IETF publishes information on intellectual property rights (IPR)
   at IETF IPR (https://ietf.org/ipr) and more general information at
   ietf IPR process (https://ietf.org/process/ipr) dealing with IETF IPR
   topics in general and including patents.

2.2.2.  IETF Trust: trustee.ietf.org

   The IETF Trust, historically has published information related to
   licensing, assets, finances and notices of actions and changes on
   it's web site https://trustee.ietf.org (https://trustees.ietf.org).
   This web site shall be maintained in perpetuity as URLs to it appear
   in published documents and the Trust Legal Provisions (TLP) version
   1.0-5.0 that were active at the time of an I-D submission and the
   date of a RFC publication will continue to apply to those works even
   after subsequent transfer of those IPR assets to the IETF IPMC.  The
   existing URLs in the required copyright boilerplate and other
   sections of I-Ds and RFCs will continue to work correctly for users
   of those documents.

2.2.3.  IETF IPMC: www.ietf-ipm.org

   The IETF IPMC, has established https://www.ietf-ipm.org
   (https://www.ietf-ipm.org) as its official corporate website which it
   will use to publish governance and operational information including
   bylaws and financial statements and legal notices, along with the
   updated IETF IPMC published Technical Legal Provisions (TLP 6.0)
   which provide licensing terms for I-Ds and RFCs.

   Cross reference navigation links on the old IETF Trust and the new
   IETF IPMC websites shall be established to provide easy navigation
   between them to users.

2.3.  Updates to RFC5378

   RFC5378 has a number of cited URLs directing readers to the locations
   of various IPR related information.  The IETF Trust web site URLs
   shall be maintained to preserve the URLs to it found in RFC5378.
   There is no need to update or modify existing references in I-Ds or
   RFCs.

   Additionally, RFC5378 is hence updated to include the IPMC web site
   as the location for the IETF IPMC's licensing information for the
   assets help by the IETF IPMC, inclunding required notices.

2.3.1.  IETF IPMC Technical Legal Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
        (TLP)

   The IETF Trust publised a series of documents commonly known as the
   "TLP" versions 1.0-5.0 containing basic common licensing declarations
   and required boilerplates and notices in I-Ds and RFCs.  The formal
   name for these documents was "IETF Trust Legal Provisions Relating to
   IETF Documents", hence the easier "TLP" common name.  To maintain
   this common terminology, while recongizing that the IETF IPMC is not
   a trust, the next version shall be also known as the TLP 6.0, with
   the new formal name being the "IETF IPMC Technical Legal Provisions
   Relating to IETF Documents" which shall be published starting as IETF
   IPMC TLP version 6.0 to maintain version consistency with the IETF
   Trust's TLP 1.0-5.0.

   TLP 6.0 is publised by the IETF IPMC on its website.

2.4.  Use of IETF Trust and IETF IPMC in other IETF IPR Framework
      Documents

   All references to the IETF Trust in [RFC5378] (BCP78) and related
   operational documents shall be read as referring to the IETF IPMC
   effective upon the transition.

   Updated versions of required copyright notices in I-Ds and RFCs
   reflecting this change can be found in Section 6 of the TLP 6.0.

   Note that no required retroactive changes of copyright notices in
   prior IETF documents are to be made.

   While it is not necssary to update pre-IPMC copyright notices, it is
   correct and accurate to refer to the IETF IPMC as the holder of all
   the intellectual property rights and assets previously held by the
   IETF Trust, since these have all been moved to the IETF IPMC.

2.5.  RFC8721 Advice to the IPMC Directors on the IETF IPMC on Rights to
      be Granted in IETF Documents

   [RFC8721] provides advice to the IETF Trustees of the IETF Trust on
   rights to be granted in IETF documents.  This advice is updated to be
   directed at the IETF IPMC Board of Directors in the same capacity as
   it was for the IETF Trustees.

2.6.  Intellectual Property Rights Held by IETF Trust

   The intellectual property rights held by the IETF Trust have been
   transferred to the IETF IPMC, as the successor the IETF Trust.
   Inquiries regarding licenses and other IPR topics should now be made
   to the IETF IPMC.

2.7.  RFC Streams

   [RFC8729] defines a series of RFC Streams - IETF, IAB, IRTF and
   Independent Stream and [RFC9920] adds the Editorial Stream as the
   different distinct publication streams under the RFC Series.
   Mentions of the IETF Trust and intellectual property rights
   management in RFC8729, RFC9920 and their related RFCs are updated to
   recognize the IETF IPMC as the successor and replacement to the IETF
   Trust as the party responsible for providing the same role of
   copyright holder and adminstrator for those RFC Streams.

   Specifics for each RFC Series Stream were described the IETF Trust's
   TLP 5.0 section 8, with the exception of the Editorial Stream which
   was not mentioned explicity in TLP 5.0 due to its creation after the
   publication of TLP 5.0.  The IETF IPMC is assuming the role of the
   IETF Trust as described in TLP 5.0 and additionally it is formally
   adding the Editorial Stream into TLP 6.0.

   Additional details on the RFC Series Streams can be found in the IETF
   IPMC TLP version 6.0 published on the IPMC website.

2.8.  IETF Trustees and IPMC Directors

   [RFC8714] defines the selection and recall processes for IETF
   Trustees, under which Trustees are directly selected by the
   designated selecting organizations (the IETF NomCom, the IESG, and
   the ISOC Board of Trustees) to serve as Trustees of the IETF Trust.

   The process for selecting IETF IPMC Directors is structurally
   different but functionally equivalent.  While IPMC Directors are not
   appointed directly by the selecting organizations, the outcome is the
   same: director selection authority is effectively exercised by the
   same RFC 8714-designated bodies, and director terms track the same
   durations specified in RFC 8714 for IETF Trustees.

2.8.1.  Corporate Governance Context

   The IETF IPMC is a Delaware nonstock corporation with no members.
   Because Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL) does not provide for
   the appointment of directors by third-parties, such corporations
   typically operate with self-perpetuating boards, meaning that
   directors are elected by the sitting board rather than by members or
   shareholders or third-parties.  This governance model is expressly
   reflected in the IPMC bylaws.

2.8.2.  IPMC Director Selection Mechanism

   The process for IPMC board composition is defined in IPMC Bylaws
   § 3.3, and operates as follows:

   *  Initial Board Formation (§ 3.3(a))

   The initial directors of the IPMC were the IETF Trustees serving at
   the time of the IPMC’s incorporation.  This ensured continuity of
   fiduciary responsibility and alignment between the Trust and the
   newly formed IPMC.

   *  Subsequent Director Selection (§ 3.3(b))

   Upon expiration of an IPMC director’s term or their resignation, the
   sitting IPMC Board elects a successor director.  However, the pool of
   eligible candidates is constrained:

   *  Each director seat is associated with a specific nominating
      organization (IETF NomCom, IESG, or ISOC Board of Trustees),
      consistent with RFC 8714.

   *  When a term expires or a director resigns, the relevant nominating
      organization selects the individual to be nominated.

   *  That individual is then submitted to the IPMC Board, which is then
      required under the bylaws to formally elect the nominee as a
      director.

   In practice, this means that while the legal act of election is
   performed by the IPMC Board (as required by Delaware law), the
   substantive selection authority rests with the RFC 8714-designated
   nominating organizations.

2.8.3.  Protection of Nominating Organization Rights

   The rights of the nominating organizations are protected by IPMC
   Bylaws § 3.6.  That provision restricts the Board’s ability to:

   *  Modify eligibility requirements for directors, or

   *  Alter or eliminate the rights of nominating organizations to
      nominate directors

   unless such changes are approved by:

   *  A two-thirds vote of all then-serving directors, and the
      affirmative vote of any director representing a nominating
      organization that would be adversely affected by the change.

   The practical effect of this safeguard is that no nominating
   organization can be disenfranchised or have its representation
   diluted without its own consent, expressed through its representative
   director’s affirmative vote.  This creates a strong governance
   lock-in consistent with both Delaware law and the community-driven
   structure envisioned by RFC 8714 and is in fact a more stringent
   control than exists under the Trust Agreement, where the consent of
   an affected organization is not required.

2.8.4.  IPMC Director Recall

   RFC 8714 also defines recall mechanisms for IETF Trustees appointed
   by each of the selecting organizations.

   Within the IPMC governance framework, these RFC 8714 recall
   authorities are implemented through IPMC Bylaws § 3.3(c).  Under that
   provision:

   *  Each nominating organization retains the authority to replace its
      designated representative on the IPMC Board of Directors.

   *  When a nominating organization exercises its recall or replacement
      authority, the IPMC Board is required under the bylaws to elect
      the replacement nominee.

   As with director selection, the Board’s role is ministerial and
   legally required under Delaware corporate law, while the decision to
   recall or replace a director remains entirely with the relevant
   nominating organization, consistent with RFC 8714.

2.9.  IETF IPMC recognition of IETF BCPs

   The IETF IPMC bylaws obligate the IETF IPMC to manage IETF assets for
   the benefit of the IETF.  Therefore, the IETF IPMC looks to comply
   with IETF BCPs, as far as legally possible to guide its directors in
   carrying out that obligation.

3.  Security Considerations

   This document has no security considerations.

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC4748]  Bradner, S., Ed., "RFC 3978 Update to Recognize the IETF
              Trust", RFC 4748, DOI 10.17487/RFC4748, October 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4748>.

   [RFC5378]  Bradner, S., Ed. and J. Contreras, Ed., "Rights
              Contributors Provide to the IETF Trust", BCP 78, RFC 5378,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5378, November 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5378>.

   [RFC8714]  Arkko, J. and T. Hardie, "Update to the Process for
              Selection of Trustees for the IETF Trust", BCP 101,
              RFC 8714, DOI 10.17487/RFC8714, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8714>.

   [RFC8721]  Halpern, J., Ed., "Advice to the Trustees of the IETF
              Trust on Rights to Be Granted in IETF Documents",
              RFC 8721, DOI 10.17487/RFC8721, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8721>.

   [RFC8729]  Housley, R., Ed. and L. Daigle, Ed., "The RFC Series and
              RFC Editor", RFC 8729, DOI 10.17487/RFC8729, February
              2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8729>.

   [RFC9280]  Saint-Andre, P., Ed., "RFC Editor Model (Version 3)",
              RFC 9280, DOI 10.17487/RFC9280, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9280>.

   [RFC9730]  Zheng, H., Lin, Y., Zhao, Y., Xu, Y., and D. Beller,
              "Interworking of GMPLS Control and Centralized Controller
              Systems", RFC 9730, DOI 10.17487/RFC9730, March 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9730>.

   [RFC9920]  Hoffman, P. and A. Rossi, "RFC Editor Model (Version 3)",
              RFC 9920, DOI 10.17487/RFC9920, February 2026,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9920>.

Appendix A.  Acknowledgments

   The IETF Trustees and IETF Intellectual Property Management
   Corporation directors during the restructuring of the IETF Trust to
   the IETF IPMC were: Glenn Deen, John Levine, Joel Halpern, Kathleen
   Moriarty, Victor Kuarsingh, Jon Peterson, Kristin Berdan, Wendy
   Seltzer.

Author's Address

   Glenn Deen
   Comcast-NBCUniversal
   Email: rgd.ietf@gmail.com
